# Steps to Reproduce RYGB Analysis

BioLockJ is a program that manages analysis pipelines.  Based on the files here, it will create a new project folder, create sub-directories corresponding to this projects structure, copy in the inputs and scripts, and run the scripts in the specified order.  If using docker, BioLockJ will run each script in the specified environement.  To run this yourself, follow the instructions below.  To download a previous successful run, see the releases of this repository - https://github.com/FodorLab/RYGB_IntegratedAnalysis2020/releases.

In your own run, or in a downloaded one, the file 29_MainFigures/output/MainFigures.pdf is especially helpful.
This is a side by side view of the images used as the main figures for the publication, and the corresponding images generated by running the scripts. For each image, there is text giving the path to the image within the project folder, making it easy to identify the script(s) that created it, along with logs and other outputs from the same run.  There are many acceptable reasons why a regenerated figure may not be identical to the original. The side by side allows us to verify that the core conclusion of the published figure still holds in the reproduction. 

## 1. Ensure that BioLockJ (v1.3.13 or newer) is on local system
BioLockJ - https://biolockj-dev-team.github.io/BioLockJ/Getting-Started/

## 2. Download RYGB_IntegratedAnalysis directory
git clone https://github.com/FarnazFouladi/RYGB_IntegratedAnalysis2020.git

## 3. Set up required software

### Option A) using docker

Install docker.
Docker Desktop - https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop

Make sure the ` docker run hello-world ` command runs successfully.

The docker images required for this pipeline will be automatically pulled from the docker hub as need.  The first time the pipeline runs, startup will be slow as images are downloaded. 

**_If_** the specified images cannot be retrieved, they can be built from the docker files.  See the BioLockJ/Analysis/dockerfiles folder.  Build instructions are included in each file.

### Option B) not using docker

Make sure R is installed.  See https://www.r-project.org/.  These scripts were written with 4.0.2.

Make sure all required R packages are installed                                

 * nlme
 * stringr
 * ggplot2
 * gridExtra
 * ggsignif
 * ggrepel
 * vegan
 * tidyverse
 * cowplot
 * pROC
 * yaml
 * ComplexHeatmap
 * reshape2
 * pdp
 * SIAMCAT

## 4. Run BioLockJ pipeline

Move to the Analysis folder:            
`cd <path/to/RYGB_IntegratedAnalysis2020>/Analysis`

To run the pipeline using **locally installed software**:                 
`biolockj RYGB_IntegreatedAnalysis.config`

To run the pipeline using **docker images**, add the -d argument:                                    
`biolockj -d RYGB_IntegratedAnalysis.config`
